README.md, before:

# MRLCircleChart

[![CI Status](http://img.shields.io/travis/mlisik/MRLCircleChart.svg?style=flat)](https://travis-ci.org/mlisik/MRLCircleChart)
[![Platform](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/p/MRLCircleChart.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/pods/MRLCircleChart)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/v/MRLCircleChart.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/pods/MRLCircleChart)
[![Carthage compatible](https://img.shields.io/badge/Carthage-compatible-4BC51D.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage)
[![Stories in Ready](https://badge.waffle.io/mlisik/MRLCircleChart.png?label=ready&title=Ready)](https://waffle.io/mlisik/MRLCircleChart)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/l/MRLCircleChart.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/pods/MRLCircleChart)

![Animated .gif of chart reloading it's data](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mlisik/MRLCircleChart/master/Screenshots/mrlcirclechart.gif?raw=true "Reloading chart data")

`MRLCircleChart` is a small pie/circle chart UI component written in Swift. Aims to take care of most of the work for you (just pass in a data source and configure the view) at the expense of customizability.

## Main Features

- [x] configuration through a dataSource
- [x] customization through IB
- [x] color, linewidth, begin/end angle animations
- [x] callbacks on selection / deselection

## Usage

### Data setup

`Chart`'s `DataSource` is comprised of an array of `Segment`s and a `maxValue` property that functions as a reference for `Segment`s angle values. You can easily map your source values to `[Segment]`, then initialize a data source conforming to the `MRLCircleChart.DataSource` protocol, and pass this to the `Chart`:

````swift
struct DataSource: MRLCircleChart.DataSource {
  // protocol conformance
}

let segments = [90, 80, 60].map {
  Segment(value: $0, description: "\($0)")
}

chart.dataSource = DataSource(items: segments, maxValue: 250)

````

### Customization

All customization you need can be done via InterfaceBuilder, through the following `IBDesignable` properties:

![InterfaceBuilder's AttributesInspector pane contains a Chart section where primary properties are easily accessible](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mlisik/MRLCircleChart/master/Screenshots/mrlcirclechart_ib_properties.png?raw=true "Editing Chart properties through InterfaceBuilder")

If you are laying out your `Chart` without IB, these are also readily available.

````swift
@IBInspectable public var lineWidth: CGFloat = 25
@IBInspectable public var padding: CGFloat = 0
@IBInspectable public var chartBackgroundColor: UIColor = UIColor(white: 0.7, alpha: 0.26)
@IBInspectable public var beginColor: UIColor? = UIColor.beginColor()
@IBInspectable public var endColor: UIColor? = UIColor.endColor()
````

### Main public APIs

_See the entire documentation on [Cocoadocs](http://cocoadocs.org/docsets/MRLCircleChart/0.3.5/Classes/Chart.html)._

Beyond customization, the main public APIs revolve around modifying and updating the available data.

#### DataSource

````swift
public mutating func remove(index: Int) -> MRLCircleChart.Segment?
public mutating func insert(item: MRLCircleChart.Segment, index: Int)
public mutating func append(item: MRLCircleChart.Segment)
public mutating func empty()
````

#### Chart

````swift
final public func reloadData(animated animated: Bool = true, completion: () -> () = {})
public func empty(animated animated: Bool = true, color: UIColor? = nil)
public func select(index selectIndex: Int)
public func deselect(index index: Int)
````

#### Callbacks

Two callbacks are available for user interaction events: when a segment is selected and when it's deselected.

````swift
chart.selectHandler = {
  index in print("selected \(index)")
}

chart.deselectHandler = {
  index in print("deselected \(index)")
}
````

## Demo

To run the example project, clone the repo, and run `pod install` from the Example directory first, or run `pod try MRLCircleChart` to check it with a temporary clone.

## Installation

MRLCircleChart is available through [CocoaPods](http://cocoapods.org). To install
it, simply add the following line to your Podfile:

```ruby
pod "MRLCircleChart"
```
## Collaboration

If you'd like to help out, check open tickets on [waffle.io](https://waffle.io/mlisik/MRLCircleChart). There's no roadmap for the project yet, but pull requests are welcome (whether you want to clean up, fix or add something), and so are feature requests.

## Author

mlisik, marek.lisik@holdapp.pl

## License

MRLCircleChart is available under the MIT license. See the LICENSE file for more info.

Commit message:

removes author, waffle.io mentions from readme

README.md, after:

# MRLCircleChart

[![CI Status](http://img.shields.io/travis/mlisik/MRLCircleChart.svg?style=flat)](https://travis-ci.org/mlisik/MRLCircleChart)
[![Platform](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/p/MRLCircleChart.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/pods/MRLCircleChart)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/v/MRLCircleChart.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/pods/MRLCircleChart)
[![Carthage compatible](https://img.shields.io/badge/Carthage-compatible-4BC51D.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/l/MRLCircleChart.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/pods/MRLCircleChart)

![Animated .gif of chart reloading it's data](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mlisik/MRLCircleChart/master/Screenshots/mrlcirclechart.gif?raw=true "Reloading chart data")

`MRLCircleChart` is a small pie/circle chart UI component written in Swift. Aims to take care of most of the work for you (just pass in a data source and configure the view) at the expense of customizability.

## Main Features

- [x] configuration through a dataSource
- [x] customization through IB
- [x] color, linewidth, begin/end angle animations
- [x] callbacks on selection / deselection

## Usage

### Data setup

`Chart`'s `DataSource` is comprised of an array of `Segment`s and a `maxValue` property that functions as a reference for `Segment`s angle values. You can easily map your source values to `[Segment]`, then initialize a data source conforming to the `MRLCircleChart.DataSource` protocol, and pass this to the `Chart`:

````swift
struct DataSource: MRLCircleChart.DataSource {
  // protocol conformance
}

let segments = [90, 80, 60].map {
  Segment(value: $0, description: "\($0)")
}

chart.dataSource = DataSource(items: segments, maxValue: 250)

````

### Customization

All customization you need can be done via InterfaceBuilder, through the following `IBDesignable` properties:

![InterfaceBuilder's AttributesInspector pane contains a Chart section where primary properties are easily accessible](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mlisik/MRLCircleChart/master/Screenshots/mrlcirclechart_ib_properties.png?raw=true "Editing Chart properties through InterfaceBuilder")

If you are laying out your `Chart` without IB, these are also readily available.

````swift
@IBInspectable public var lineWidth: CGFloat = 25
@IBInspectable public var padding: CGFloat = 0
@IBInspectable public var chartBackgroundColor: UIColor = UIColor(white: 0.7, alpha: 0.26)
@IBInspectable public var beginColor: UIColor? = UIColor.beginColor()
@IBInspectable public var endColor: UIColor? = UIColor.endColor()
````

### Main public APIs

_See the entire documentation on [Cocoadocs](http://cocoadocs.org/docsets/MRLCircleChart/0.3.5/Classes/Chart.html)._

Beyond customization, the main public APIs revolve around modifying and updating the available data.

#### DataSource

````swift
public mutating func remove(index: Int) -> MRLCircleChart.Segment?
public mutating func insert(item: MRLCircleChart.Segment, index: Int)
public mutating func append(item: MRLCircleChart.Segment)
public mutating func empty()
````

#### Chart

````swift
final public func reloadData(animated animated: Bool = true, completion: () -> () = {})
public func empty(animated animated: Bool = true, color: UIColor? = nil)
public func select(index selectIndex: Int)
public func deselect(index index: Int)
````

#### Callbacks

Two callbacks are available for user interaction events: when a segment is selected and when it's deselected.

````swift
chart.selectHandler = {
  index in print("selected \(index)")
}

chart.deselectHandler = {
  index in print("deselected \(index)")
}
````

## Demo

To run the example project, clone the repo, and run `pod install` from the Example directory first, or run `pod try MRLCircleChart` to check it with a temporary clone.

## Installation

MRLCircleChart is available through [CocoaPods](http://cocoapods.org). To install
it, simply add the following line to your Podfile:

```ruby
pod "MRLCircleChart"
```
## Collaboration

There's no roadmap for the project and it is not actively maintained, but pull requests are welcome (whether you want to clean up, fix or add something), and so are feature requests.

## License

MRLCircleChart is available under the MIT license. See the LICENSE file for more info.
